In this chapter, we're going to be talking
about scope.
And scope refers to the context in which a
variable or some other
object's value is legitimate or valid, or
even visible.
And sometimes it's hard to talk about
scope without providing an example.
So in this lesson we're going to look at
the first example of scope, and that's
global scope.
What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna open a
program called global.py.
So again we're talking about scope.
And generally speaking, the two types of
scope
we talk about are global scope and local
scope.
Now, in general it's a bad idea to
have too many objects, variables, whatever
of global scope.
And we'll have to save that discussion as
to why
it's not a good idea until later in the
chapter.
But for now I just wanna demonstrate what
global scope means.
When we have a Python program, and we
declare a variable.
At this level, we say that number has a
global scope in relation to the rest of
the program.
Now what that means, it means that any
other part of the program can access
numbers value.
Well, what does that mean?
Well, first of all, of course, we know
that the program itself can access the
value.
So when we run this program, we get the
value one.
That, we would already understand.
But what that also means though, is if we
define a function, and
make a call to the variable number from
inside the function, like so.
Watch what happens.
We still have access to it.
That is a classic example of global scope.
What that means again, is that once a
variable is declared in the main part
of a program, by that I mean outside a
function definition or a class definition.
We'll talk about classes later in the
course.
Then its visibility is throughout the
program.
So even though getnumber is a function
that when we declare variables inside
of it have the other type of scope local
because number is declared
in what we might term the global area just
in the main program.
Then its visibility is anywhere.
So we can access number from the main
program,
and we can also access number from a
function call.
And when the function call is executed,
Python
simply looks for whatever version of
number there is,
and it's here defined in the global scope
or
in the global context so it accesses that
value.
So that's what global scope means.
And we're gonna end this lesson now.
And I admit it's a fairly short lesson.
But, I wanted to keep these concepts of
global and local scope separate.
So now that you understand what global
scope means, we're ready to
move to the next lesson where we're going
to talk about local scope.